---
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

Thomas Walter is full professor at [Mines Paris](https://www.minesparis.psl.eu) and director of the Center for Computational Biology, a research group at Mines Paris, and part of the joined unit between [Institut Curie](https://institut-curie.org), Mines Paris and INSERM: “Cancer and Genome: Bioinformatics, Biostatistics, Epidemiology of Complex Systems”. His research focuses on the development and application of methods in Machine Learning and Computer Vision to biological and medical image data.

Thomas Walter received his engineering degree from Saarland University in 1999 and completed his PhD thesis at the Centre for Mathematical Morphology at Mines Paris in the field of Computer Aided Diagnosis of Diabetic Retinopathy, a severe and frequent eye disease. He then joined the Ellenberg lab at the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) in Heidelberg, where he developed Computer Vision methods to analyse the first genome-wide RNAi screen by live cell imaging in a human cell line in order to identify genes required for cell division. In 2012, he joined the Centre for Computational Biology at Mines Paris, first as an independent researcher and since 2018 as director. His work focuses on Bioimage Informatics with applications to High Content Screening and Computational Pathology. Since 2019, he holds a chair at the PaRis Artificial Intelligence Research InstitutE ([PRAIRIE](https://prairie-institute.fr)), and he is a full professor of Mines Paris since 2021. He is also active in teaching Deep Learning for Bioimage Analysis in a number of courses. He has published more than 80 articles (h-index: 35). 
